# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

-- console.rb Lines 6, 15, 24

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

property.rb Line 65 onwards

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

4, 13, 22, 31, 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

The ID needs to be unique, so SQL manages this itself.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

The premise of the ID is set up in Line 9 and is first applied to an object in Line 32

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

When we first create the property it won't have an ID. SQL needs to assign one.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Some are targeted at the entire class and would, for example, delete an entire entry whereas others only modify specific entries in the table.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

It returns an Array. id would sit at position 0 so we can access this by targeting position 0

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

To protect against SQL injection attacks.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

find_by_id = integer
find_by_address = VARCHAR/String

Q11. What are their return values?

They'll return a hash with whatever sits in the relevant field. find_by_id would return the hash of the single property that matches that id whereas find_by_address will return all the hashes where the entered string matches against the strings in the address field in the database.
